Disclaimer
===============

All liability for any damage, which might be incurred as a result of access to and use of the site, is emphatically disclaimed by Comune di Venezia. No guarantee is given for the faultless and uninterrupted functioning of the sites. No guarantee or declaration is given, either explicitly or implicitly, as regards the accuracy or completeness of the information published on the sites or to which the sites provide access. Comune di Venezia accepts no responsibility whatsoever for the information and/or recommendations published on the sites or to which access is provided via the sites. Alterations can be made to this information and these recommendations without prior notice being given.


Comune di Venezia aims to ensure that the Content is accurate and consistent with its current knowledge and practice. However, meteorology, oceanography and climatology are inexact sciences, which are constantly evolving, and therefore any element of the Content that involves a forecast or a prediction may not be relied upon as though it were a statement of fact. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, Comune di Venezia excludes all warranties or representations (express or implied) in respect of the Content. Your use of the Content is entirely at your own risk. We make no warranty, representation or guarantee that the Content is error free or fit for your intended use.

**Limitation of Liability.** TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW Comune di Venezia HEREBY DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL LIABILITY FOR LOSS, INJURY OR DAMAGE (DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL OR SPECIAL) ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH USE OF THE SITE INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY AND ALL LIABILITY: RELATING TO THE ACCURACY, COMPLETENESS, RELIABILITY, AVAILABILITY, SUITABILITY, QUALITY, OWNERSHIP, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OPERATION, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR PURPOSE OF THE CONTENT; RELATING TO ITS WORK PROCURING, COMPILING, INTERPRETING, EDITING, REPORTING AND PUBLISHING THE CONTENT; RELATING TO ANY INTERRUPTION, FAILURE OR CESSATION OF OPERATION OR TRANSMISSION; RESULTING FROM ANY ACTS OR OMISSIONS OF ANY THIRD PARTIES IN CONNECTION WITH YOUR USE OF THE SITE; RESULTING FROM RELIANCE UPON, OPERATION OF, USE OF OR ACTIONS OR DECISIONS MADE ON THE BASIS OF, ANY FACTS, OPINIONS, IDEAS, INSTRUCTIONS, METHODS, OR PROCEDURES SET OUT ON THIS SITE; ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THE MISUSE OF OR INAPPROPRIATE RELIANCE ON THE CONTENT OF THE SITE; AND RESULTING FROM ANY VIRUS, WORM, TROJAN, TIME-BOMBS, KEYSTROKE LOGGERS, SPYWARE, ADWARE OR ANY OTHER KIND OF MALWARE OR CONTAMINATION OF COMPUTING EQUIPMENT. YOU SHOULD CARRY OUT YOUR OWN EVALUATION / VERIFICATION EXERCISE BEFORE CHOOSING TO RELY UPON ANY OF THE CONTENT IN ANY WAY.
